Abstract.
As multi-turn dialogues with large language models (LLMs) grow longer and more complex, how can users better evaluate and review progress on their conversational goals? We present OnGoal, an LLM chat interface that helps users better manage goal progress. OnGoal provides real-time feedback on goal alignment through LLM-assisted evaluation, explanations for evaluation results with examples, and overviews of goal progression over time, enabling users to navigate complex dialogues more effectively. Through a study with 20 participants on a writing task, we evaluate OnGoal against a baseline chat interface without goal tracking. Using OnGoal, participants spent less time and effort to achieve their goals while exploring new prompting strategies to overcome miscommunication, suggesting tracking and visualizing goals can enhance engagement and resilience in LLM dialogues. Our findings inspired design implications for future LLM chat interfaces that improve goal communication, reduce cognitive load, enhance interactivity, and enable feedback to improve LLM performance.
LLM, UI, Sensemaking, Visualization, Conversational agent. 
ïŋ―ïŋ―journalyear: 2025ïŋ―ïŋ―copyright: rightsretainedïŋ―ïŋ―conference: The 38th Annual ACM Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology; September 28-October 1, 2025; Busan, Republic of Koreaïŋ―ïŋ―booktitle: The 38th Annual ACM Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology (UIST ïŋ―25), September 28-October 1, 2025, Busan, Republic of Koreaïŋ―ïŋ―doi: 10.1145/3746059.3747746ïŋ―ïŋ―isbn: 979-8-4007-2037-6/2025/09ïŋ―ïŋ―ccs: Human-centered computingïŋ―Graphical user interfacesïŋ―ïŋ―ccs: Human-centered computingïŋ―Visualization techniquesïŋ―ïŋ―ccs: Computing methodologiesïŋ―Discourse, dialogue and pragmatics 

Figure 1. OnGoal tracks and visualizes conversational goals such as requests and suggestions in multi-turn dialogue with LLMs, helping users better evaluate and review their goal progress. 
\Description
Web page interface of VisPile. The page consists of a small header with title, a left main content area with a scrolling chat interface and text input at the bottom, and a right side bar with three tabs: Goals, Timeline, and Events.